I am trying to put together some plans right now for a research project of a different kind of an agent model. This different kind of agent model is a different thing than typical ones.

The basic idea behind what I want to do is I want to take a pre-existing model, ideally one that is fine-tuned to already be an agent, which would basically mean a Hermes model. With the Hermes model, I want to move on from that, but with the Hermes model I basically want to do an additional step. I want to add a reservoir to it to do reservoir computing.

The idea here is rather simple. The reservoir will have all of the attention matrix stuff at some point in the model, which I'll have to look deep enough into so that there's a clear idea of the attention of the things on the entire state of the reservoir. The reservoir is obviously randomly generated, dense, and chaotic. A big thing that I'm doing here is basically reservoir computing as we normally conceive of it.

RNNs and reservoir computing have problems with their training, but they have different problems. RNNs have the problem that the actual recurrent stuff just replicates infinitely, so it's very easy to explode. By contrast, reservoir computing has the issue that the learning is fixed to a certain orientation of the randomly organised neurons in the reservoir. The way that I want to fix this is that you can train a reservoir model a lot, and then it just turns out that your random neurons were unlucky. The idea behind it is that I am sticking the reservoir to an already proven model and then fine-tuning based off of the reservoir. The idea is that there might be, I don't know, 10 or 20 fine-tunings of agents with the reservoirs added. The idea behind this here is that we know this is stochastic, and we are picking the good one. We are picking the one that actually works.

The Transformer is going to become something that is stateful. For an agent, I believe an agent having some kind of idea of elapsing time is extremely important, because this might influence things like it coming to an intuition of whether it's doing a task successfully or not, or in an appropriate time frame based upon the amount of time that's passed. This is implicit time, and it could remember things contextually in ways that are different from just the context.

I'd actually like you to attempt to do a diagram of this model. The idea behind it is the attention. The attention mechanism essentially has the contents of the reservoir as content that is going into it in the same way as other things. The result of this is that two things in the reservoir could attend to each other extremely strongly, and this might indicate something like, say, it was trying to do a certain task and somehow it triggered a dynamical system thing of it deciding it's going to do a task. There's been no input, and this no input eventually leads to two particular neurons being triggered in just the right way, making it so that they now attend to each other. It realises, "Oh crap, I've been working for an hour on this tiny JavaScript project. What the heck is going on?" or something in the reservoir could attack. There's like a fully trained transformer that's running before the reservoir does anything.

My idea here is pretty simply that, because of the fact that this is going on, it makes it so that this is an architecture that is fundamentally stochastic in nature for the training. We have to try many times, and so it is not cost-effective to train from scratch, but I think it'll be very cost-effective to just try to fine-tune a model. This is specifically supposed to be something for agents, because agents, as things that are doing stuff in the world, need to have some sort of a conceptualization of what they are actually doing in the world and what the state of the world is. I think a lot of other things, like context, are done with agents, although I am not really sure about that. Agents have a lot of tools, but I feel like this is a thing that will make it so that they will kind of be more agentic and more like actual, functionally living, functional beings with motivations, as opposed to just being in this weird state of not understanding, basically being iterated, or being like an animatic of consciousness. 
